data_collection/README.md, before:

# Nextbike Data Aggregation Setup

Install the Nextbike data collection on a server using Containers.

Continuously collect and store data from the Nextbike API, every minute, ready for analysis.


## Prerequisites
Per entry roughly `0,12 KB`.

Make sure your system has at least the following resources:
> Note: IPv4 is required as GitHub and Nextbike do not support IPv6.

| Resource                | Minimal Requirement                              |
| ----------------------- | ------------------------------------------------ |
| Network                 | Support IPv4                                     |
| RAM                     | 1 GiB                                            |
| Disk                    | 25 GiB (@420 bikes - sufficient for a year)      |
| Docker                  | Container runtime installed                      |


## Install

```SHELL
# Clone rpeo
git clone https://github.com/zwoefler/nextbike-city-analysis.git
cd nextbike-city-analysis/data_collection

# Copy the fake env vars
cp data_collection.env.example data_collection.env

# Pulls & builds the images and starts the aggregation in the background
docker compose --file docker-compose.yaml up -d
```

Commit message:

Cleanup (#14)
* UPdate dat_collection README

* Update .env in collection README

* Refactor processing

* Update visualization

* Updating some data

---------

Co-authored-by: zwoefler <>

data_collection/README.md, after:

# Nextbike Data Aggregation Setup

Install the Nextbike data collection on a server using Containers.

Continuously collect and store data from the Nextbike API, every minute, ready for analysis.

Uses Postgres as a database, and a Python3 script to pull the data.

## Prerequisites
Per entry roughly `0,12 KB`.

Make sure your system has at least the following resources:
> Note: IPv4 is required as GitHub and Nextbike do not support IPv6.

| Resource                | Minimal Requirement                              |
| ----------------------- | ------------------------------------------------ |
| Network                 | Support IPv4                                     |
| RAM                     | 1 GiB                                            |
| Disk                    | 25 GiB (@420 bikes - sufficient for a year)      |
| Docker                  | Container runtime installed                      |


## Install

```SHELL
# Clone rpeo
git clone https://github.com/zwoefler/nextbike-city-analysis.git
cd nextbike-city-analysis/data_collection

# Copy the fake env vars
cp .env.example .env

# Pulls & builds the images and starts the aggregation in the background
docker compose --file docker-compose.yaml up -d
```
